If you missed the first parts, begin [here](http://edibleem.com/how-he-unintentionally-had-me-hooked) and read our story. Otherwise, the following part of the story may not make much sense to you at all. 

<br>


The holidays came and went and winter began coming to a close. It was time to start thinking about how we would be spending our summer break. Ruben decided to begin classes toward a degree in software engineering in March for the spring term. I was having conversations with the camp director at Black Lake where I had met Ruben. 


My plan was to finish out the school year and go back to work at camp together.


But that was not what Ruben wanted to do.


Ruben did the responsible thing and signed up for summer classes in order to accelerate his degree. I was not ready for an engineering job at this point and had some work I felt called to do back at camp. We were still young in our relationship so it made sense to spend a few months apart and seemed like it wouldn’t make that big of a difference.


But in the back of my mind I was vehemently opposed. I had become quite attached to this man and couldn’t bear the thought of not seeing him on a regular basis. 


This was one of my concerns. 


As I realized just how attached I was getting I thought more and more about the future. We were both making such huge decisions about our career and after Ruben signed up to go to school for the next 4 years (a long time!!), I wondered more and more what he thought about our future.


Anyway, you can see where this is leading and this is what I did: I brought up the “m” word. Yep, I spoke first and I asked Ruben at a coffee shop while discussing his 4-year educational plan, whether or not he had even considered marrying me.


He was shocked. Then I got very, very upset. I couldn’t even believe that we had been dating for almost a year and he had not even thought of this!  I was furious for having to bring it up first and even more angry and hurt that he had not been thinking about us long term. I agree a year is not that long to most people, but it is still much too long to date casually, at least for me. I had become seriously attached! It would have been overwhelming to end things even after a year, yet alone any longer. I was determined that if this relationship was not serious that we end it. 


We went back to his place and I cried in his arms, a big, ugly cry, for hours. Not my finest moment. 


Fortunately Ruben agreed after taking a few days to mull things over that he too was considering our relationship to be headed in the marriage direction. Not that we were completely locked in so early, but that it was a possibility and dating was not just a game for either of us. I was relieved to hear that he too felt our relationship growing toward marriage but just saw it as an event happening further in the future. We both realized that it would be a long time at this point before we could get married but at least we both knew we were heading in that direction and that we were serious about each other. 
