



Beginner/At-Home Mindfulness Practices

By now, everyone has at least hear the term “mindfulness” and knows generally what it means. Mindfulness is basically just awareness. Being in tune with how you feel, what is going on around you, and not letting time pass you by 

But this is still a pretty vague idea. Where exactly does one start to be mindful? 

Awareness exercises: A great way to get started implementing mindfulness into your everyday life is through a simple awareness exercise. One of my favorite and the most simple exercises is to find a quiet space and get as comfortable as you can. Do whatever your body feels best doing, whether it be sitting on a mat or cushion, laying down, or even sitting in a chair with your eyes closed. Think about your day…. Notice the thoughts that are in your head. What are you grateful for? What is dominating your thoughts? Don’t judge, just notice and observe. This is the first step in being mindful.
Breathing exercises: Set a timer for 3 minutes 
Body Scan: This is a great way to become more mindful in your physical body and a classic meditation… This is typically done laying down, although if sitting or even standing is more comfortable for you go ahead and do that. Keep your gaze soft or close your eyes if you will be distracted by your surroundings at all. Start by taking a few deep breaths. After you observe your breathing, turn your attention to your body. Note how present you feel (perhaps you will want to rate yourself on a scale from 1-10 on the level of awareness you believe you have at this time). Start with feet, then legs, then groin, hands, belly, arms, lungs, neck & throat, jaw, are your eyebrows furrowed? Then turn your attention back to your entire body as a whole. Breath for a few seconds, or however long feels good. Maybe rate yourself again on your level of mindfulness, noting if any changes have occured. Observe your breath for several more (iterations), then slowly flutter your eyes open and bring your attention back to your location. 
